Israel is keeping up its campaign of air
strikes on Gaza in response to
Saturday's terrorist attack which killed
more than 1200 people inside Israel
officials in Gaza say more than a
thousand people have been killed and at
least 260,000 displaced by the bombing
they also say the territory is about to
run out of power after Israel imposed a
total blockade cutting off supplies of
food water and
electricity Israeli air strikes hit
hundreds of Targets in Gaza
overnight leaving entire neighborhoods
in
Ruins rescue workers and locals went
door too searching for
survivors Israel's military says it was
targeting locations used by Palestinian
militants to launch attacks on
Israel with the sunrise the aftermath of
the Israeli strikes is
obvious shops and homes turned to
Rubble the targeting has been unjust
we've not seen this anywhere
before they targeted humans trees stones
and even children they didn't leave
anything
safe Gaza is under heavy fire thousands
have fled their homes to seek shelter
elsewhere
but for people in this densely populated
area there are few safe hiding
places how is this our fault what did my
children do there's no electricity
internet food or water why we suddenly
found ourselves displaced going from a
car to a hospital to a street one person
was told to come stay with us and they
got hit by an air strike another person
asked us to come stay with them and they
got targeted
I'm in the street where should I
go even un facilities have been
hit uh un facility a school Sheltering
the displaced has been uh directly hit
um a few days ago um and uh overall we
are hosting uh some 70,000 people in
over 80 schools and other facilities
across the Gaza Strip these are families
who uh have fled the the the shelling
and the
bombardment Israel says it has destroyed
the homes of many members of Hamas the
militant islamist group viewed as a
terrorist organization by the EU and the
US it has also imposed a Siege on the
Gaza Strip stopping the supply of food
Fuel and medicines
and there are reports that the sole
remaining access from Egypt has also
been shut after Israeli strikes at the
Rafa border
crossing for civilians caught up in the
fighting the conditions are becoming
increasingly difficult officials in Gaza
say Fuel and medicines are running short
and the UN says that damage to water
facilities has cut supplies to hundreds
of thousands of homes
ju Hilman is director of the Middle East
and North Africa program at the
international crisis group I asked him
what he makes of Israel's response so
far well um it is uh not surprising that
uh Israel is responding in the way that
it is now which is massively because it
has always responded to uh um Hamas
rocket attacks which what we saw in the
past mostly uh in this way massively by
destroying uh buildings and uh you know
going all out in the Gaza Strip um now
this time they have additional reason
because of the nature of the Hamas
attack on Saturday which was horrific um
and has has caused more Israeli Cas
casualties than ever before um and and
so prime minister Netanyahu has has
already said we're going to flatten the
strip uh other Israeli spokes people uh
have have made similar comments about
that they will give No Quarter uh
totally in violation of international
law um but uh I I expect that that
Israel will go all out uh and even more
than in the past but I what I don't see
is what the end game is because in the
end what do you have you have a
destroyed Gaza Strip uh you have people
without homes right you may have
defeated uh Hamas but who who then rules
the place are you going to reoccupy are
you going to do it yourself this is not
really an option for Israel can I just
uh dig deeper on when you say Israel
will go all out what do you mean what
will Israel exactly do are we talking
about ground Invasion followed by
occupation what are we talking
about so I don't know what it will do
but it's but I I can tell you that if it
does what I think it will do uh then
that would be the consequences so um if
if there is going to be a ground
Invasion and all the signs are that
there will be one um then uh they will
it will be aimed at uh fiting out Hamas
fighters who are currently in hiding in
tunnels mostly on theg ground um if that
happen those Fighters will come out and
there will be houset toh house combat
that will utterly destroy whatever is
still standing today uh there will be
nothing left in those parts of the Gaza
Strip where that fighting would take
place I don't know if it will be in the
entire strip in the end people as your
correspondent said have nowhere to go
absolutely nowhere to go so uh Israel
must take that into account it it will
have to confine them somehow in a in in
a smaller part of the strip as it is
trying to fight the fight these find and
fight these Hamas Fighters um but it's
very hard to imagine that there will be
much left standing when they're done
with a ground Invasion and then yes the
question is will they leave again the
Israeli troops or will they stay uh and
and take care of this population which
is then suddenly without its protector
and and Governor right uh and um you
know what what to do you know we're
talking about uh what Israel could
potentially do uh and at the same time
we're talking about an Israeli response
to a Hamas attack that caught the
Israeli establishment completely by
surprise I wonder if you think there are
any assumptions about Hamas that the
Israeli security establishment needs to
have a rethink about especially when it
contemplates its next course of action
well I'm sure that there's going there's
already a lot of rethinking happening
inside Israel about their overall
approach and people you know remember
the 1973 October War when Israel was
caught by surprise and they say they
said then we we can never let this
happen again and so that means there was
a whole um culture in the in the Israeli
security establishment about you know
always questioning their own assumptions
which is a very healthy thing to do by
the way uh but somehow it fell apart in
this case why because they they had seen
signs that Hamas was not planning
anything in the near future they had
still been weakened from the last round
of fighting which was not so long ago uh
and they were completely preoccupied
with the threat of hisbah in the
northern border and the security of the
Israeli settlements in the occupied West
Bank uh so um so it was a failure of
imagination in a way I do have to ask
you about what Hamas was thinking or
currently continues to think what is
hamas's end game here attacking Israel
which is a stronger military power and
then uh almost certainly expecting an
Israeli response what does Hamas think
it is going to achieve and beyond that
what do Palestinians gain from this
attack by
Hamas so it's a good question about the
the end game that Hamas they must have
one otherwise they wouldn't have started
this attack they had to to think about
it um it's not a happy end game um in my
view uh because it brings about the
autod destruction of Gaza and possibly
also of Hamas as a military movement in
Gaza um but they must have thought we
have now been here for 17 years under a
uh tight Israeli Siege uh where people
cannot really uh leave or go to the
largest open air prison in the world um
where you know services are not arriving
goods are arriving only of a certain
kind food U Med
medic medicines and stuff like that but
otherwise there's a lot that cannot come
in so what can we do after we fought
Israel so several times five times in
the past and nothing has changed it's
only gets worse we have to go For Broke
we have to go for broke and that means
uh let them come in we'll fight them we
will inflict further casualties but then
eventually the world will have to
recognize that the situation in Gaza is
unsustainable and it's their
responsibility about 40% of gaza's
population is under 15 and the conflict
is taking a huge toll on them Saleem OAS
is from unicef's middle EAS office
welcome to DW so how is this new
conflict affecting children in Gaza a
region the UN had already described as
being in the midst of a humanitarian
crisis yeah this is this is really a
crisis over the crisis uh we're talking
about uh now a few days of continuous
violence and leaving hundreds of
children uh um killed and injured on
both sides um in in Palestine in Gaza um
there are two6 260 children killed now
over 500 children are injured and these
numbers are are increasing by the hour
unfortunately um uh the situation is
really really dire as you said Gaza has
already been a place where uh Children
and Families uh um we're living a really
hard uh hard life uh with very very uh
limited uh basic Services um access to
water access to uh to health supplies
all that is now even uh more hindered uh
by by the current violence so yeah
situation in in in Gaza is really really
bad um hundreds of of thousands are
being uh um displaced as we heard from
our our honor colleague just now uh
there are a lot being uh sheltered in in
schools um and there's no place that's
safe in in uh in Gaza right now
unfortunately and so how much access
does UNICEF have given Israel's complete
blockade so so far we don't have any
access from or to uh Gaza and that's a
key ask that we have a key call to all
all uh parties of the conflict and to
the Israelis to um uh open open uh um
safe uh uh humanitarian corridors for
Aid to get inside because whatever Aid
uh is um has been stored uh and
prepositioned inside Gaza is running out
for all agencies and for all
organizations um we can't sustain our
operations uh and we can't help uh
Children and Families in Need unless we
we get Aid inside this is this is really
critical at the moment and you you
understand the the the likelihood of uh
a humanitarian Corridor being opened up
is extremely unlikely given that we
appear to be uh building up to an
Israeli ground
attack yeah but that's this this is this
is the ask the ask is for a halt
uh in violence uh humanitarian poses and
corridors for this Aid to come to come
in um this is not helping any of the
civilians inside this is not uh giving
them the chance that they they need to
live uh this is really um um being so
hard on them and on humanitarian uh
actors on the ground um we are calling
for secure and uh for protection for for
the humanitarian Aid workers for
patients for children their families
that are seeking help um also um all uh
the civilian uh infrastructure is being
uh damaged and and uh hit by by the
attacks um these infrastructures are
crucial for children and their families
to to live and to sustain their lives um
this should stop and violence should
stop at least for for the aid to come in
if the violence doesn't stop if there is
no humanitarian Corridor what will be
the
consequence well we're talking we're
talking about uh a place where uh over
over a million uh of its of its uh
population over half of its population
are children um 1 million. one uh
children in Gaza and the West Bank has
already been uh uh in need uh uh for uh
um urgent humanitarian assistance so you
can only imagine if this continues
without any any stop without any Aid
coming in this this is going to be
really a humanitarian uh uh uh a
humanitarian catastrophe inside of Gaza
thank you for joining us we wish you
well with your efforts Saleem OAS from
UNICEF